>> Mike North: We want to identify kind of
the lowest level concept that we can start
to tease out first.
Now, if we weren't able to successfully
do this, we could manage, but
it involves a little bit of creation of
temporary packages to solve some problems.
If you start refactoring in the middle,
the ideal place to start is your lowest
level modules that many things depend on,
but they don't depend on
much of anything else.
So if you can identify that grouping,
that's a great place to start
in our project, that is Models.
So if we look at the import statements for
models, well, here's there's little
entanglement within models, and
over here we've got no dependencies.
So just look at the import statements.
That's really what you
want to pay attention to.
So this is a good candidate for
us to factor out.
We should be able to bring this
out into its own package and and
then introduce a dependency between
the UI package and the Models package.
And we should be able to
sort of come back up for
error, run our build lint test and
see that it all works.
But we now have multiple
packages in our monorepo.
So let's get started.
So the first thing we're gonna do is
we want to make some directories.
So we're gonna say mkdir -p
packages/models/source and
that's gonna be our source code.
We're going to create a tests
folder as well for the tests,
because if you look closely,
we have a test folder and
conveniently we have models and
server and little trivial test in each.
So it's pretty clear what
we'll need to move out.
But this is the part I'm making easy here
that you'll have to work pretty hard for
leading into a monorepo conversion
if this is what you're doing.
So let's move the relevant
files into the new package and
you could just drag and drop if you want.
I'm going to do it in the cli, but
we'll open the relevant things so
that we can see stuff disappear.
So we're gonna say mv
packages/ui/source/models/*.
So everything in the Source Models folder
goes to Packages, Models, source enter.
Great, we'll do something similar.
But here we're going to say tests.
Basically just replace source with tests.
We saw some files disappear.
These are now empty folders.
We can go ahead and delete them.
If we look at our new Models
folder that we created here,
we can see that we've
successfully moved the code over.
Now, I got an interesting question
during the break about Git renaming.
You can see that here.
I haven't staged anything yet.
I'm gonna explain what Git sees right
now just so you all are, cuz preserving
that Git history is important,
I want you all to understand this.
We haven't staged anything.
So Git's seeing two things.
It is seeing that files that were tracked
up until this point have disappeared.
They have been deleted.
It also sees that there are some
files that are untracked.
When Git sees a new file
that is not tracked yet,
it doesn't really have any
data about this file yet.
It hasn't.
There's no checksum on it.
There are no git blobs for
this file in your git folder.
It's the moment when you say,
I want to stage these changes.
That's where we see the R that
represents the rename here.
So don't panic if you see untracked,
just do git add and stage them.
And that's really where you're gonna see,
is this being regarded as a rename or
is this being regarded as a deletion and
removal?
We need one more file in our
source folder, index ts.
And what we're going to do here is say,
export from seed packet collection and
seed packet model,
Seed packet collection model and
seed packet model.
Just so
we don't have to mess with this later,
make sure to add the JS
extension to the end of this.
Because we're using Node Next
modules in this project,
we're not getting a warning about it yet
because there is no package JSON,
there's no tsconfig, there's no basis for
checking these files yet.
But if we do this and hit save,
we'll be done with it and
we don't have to come back here.
Now let me talk a little
bit more about index ts.
Like, why are we creating this?
The way we're structuring
this file is preparing us for
a world where when you're
importing from this library,
you can do something like import
something from seeds models.
This is a nice way to have
a deliberately crafted entry point for
this library as opposed
to something like this.
Like if from the outside
you're doing this,
you're kind of exposing all of
the guts of your library and
it becomes a little bit difficult for
you to create things.
Or like, maybe you have files in here
that are kind of just a means to an end.
They export things because
internally you need to be able to,
like, work with, I don't know, some little
conversion function or whatever it is.
But like, you don't want your
users to be grabbing that.
So by saying we have a deliberately
created entry point here and
we have these explicit exports.
You could expose everything,
you could expose just a couple things,
tou could rename things
as you're exporting them.
This gives you.
It's almost like a little adapter between
the way your modules are really named and
the way symbols are exported
in your source code and
the carefully curated public API surface,
if you want to think about that,
for people who use this library
that we're about to build here.
So that's why I favor monorepo packages or
libraries in general that
have one entry point instead
of exposing their whole path
structure to the outside world.
Sorry.
There is one path thing we need to
fix that's in this tests file.
And this just has to do with like
there was an extra layer of depth in
our folder structure
in the original thing.
And so just delete one of the /.., and
this will, when we do our build,
this will work.
We'll come back and
make sure that it works.
Cool, all right, we can save this.
We can save this, save everything.
Close it.
But this isn't a package yet
because it doesn't have a package JSON.
Let's change that.
This is going to start really
simple name seeds models again.
Leaning into that NPM scope idea.
Private.
True.
We'd be missing this.
This is just don't publish to NPM.
We're talking about package registry.
We'll make this 002.
I'm just picking different numbers.
So if we see them pop up, we kind of
know that it's real instead of 000.
And then type module.
All right, we're gonna save that.
Let's look at our tests.
All right, still not working.
Because we have not built anything and
we're missing some entry points here,
some specifications for
users of this library.
Where is the entry point for
running the JavaScript?
Where is the entry point for the types?
Next we're gonna wanna add
some basic dependencies.
I'm going to.
I'm gonna be real dirty about this.
I'm just going to start
with the dependencies and
dev dependencies that
were in the UI package.
And I'm just gonna grab all of them.
And I wanna just paste that and
trim away anything that looks like
it's kind of UI-ish,
like it's svelte or it's CSS.
We're going to get rid of that.
So this is svelte,
this is TailWind, Jestdom.
Seems like it's UI testing and
that's a svelte thing.
Here's a svelte thing.
These feel like they're
related to Node and Express.
This is vitest.
We're still going to use vitest.
All right, get rid of auto prefixer.
We will get to a point where we'll
identify anything here that's extraneous.
So don't sweat being perfect about this.
So JS DOM and Post CSS,
we can get rid of that.
This is a svelte thing.
This is SaSS.
Just anything that looks like svelte or
CSS vite, we don't need that because
we're going to just be using
the TypeScript compiler build.
Great.
These dependencies,
I happen to know we need all of these.
This is to read the file, this is to log.
This is the web server and
this is the CORS middleware
that applies the right headers.
So our ui,
our browser is willing to acknowledge
the HTTP response from our backend.
So the running theme,
we touched a package JSON.
We must pnpmi and
let's look at our folder structure here.
Great, so we have a node modules here.
Look at these.
Symbolic link.
So what's happening here is, yes,
each package has a Node modules folder and
you could reach into each one of those and
you could say,
absolutely, we have Express here.
But this is really pointing to
a centralized location on disk.
These are not one copy of Express
per package in your monorepo or
one copy of eslint or whatever.
It is so
very important ultimately in here.
This is the source of truth.
Yeah, these are not symbolic links here.
This is PNPM saying, you know,
this was actually needed in the workspace.
Everything else just references it.
And you may notice, like, this is
a package name and a version specifier.
And so this is how you could end up with,
you know, multiple scanning through.
If I can see one, like, you know,
multiple versions of a single package.
Here we go.
Estree.
We've got 107 and 108 for YPES estree.
So it's totally possible to have
those both Nice flat structure,
which, by the way,
NPM would not create for you.
NPM would treat it as like node
modules with inner node modules.
And it's kind of difficult
to look through that and
grasp how much weight
is there really here.
Okay, so great.
So let's enter that project that, Sorry,
the package we just created packages,
models and be disappointed.
Why there's no build task here,
we're gonna need to add one in a sec.
So here are the scripts
we're going to add.
This is again in our models
package JSON folder.
Okay, so we need a test script.
Actually, the easy way to do this,
let's go back to our UI package JSON and
let's grab the lint.
All the lint and test stuff.
I still intend to use VITest.
It's a nice,
fast library that uses native ES modules.
I still intend to use Eslint.
So this is common stuff.
So let's bring those over.
Let's also create a build script, and
that's gonna be tsc -p for project.
Now, this file doesn't exist yet.
We don't have a tsconfig yet, but we will.
We can also add a dev script and
we're gonna do this.
Tsc -p,
same config file.
And we'll say watch preserve,
watch output.
My favorite flag.
I can't believe this is not the default.
I just hate cli commands
that eat the logs from
your previous thing you were working on.
If there are six type checking errors and
you're getting ready to fix a bunch of
them and then you hit save and it's like
you lose track of what was I looking at?
Where was my scroll position?
This just continues to append
to standard out rather
than cleaning everything and
giving you a fresh view.
Maybe that's a matter of taste.
So we've got build,
we've got dev, we've got lint.
Great.